A "Hello, World!" program is generally a computer program that outputs or displays the message "Hello, World!".
This program is very simple to write in many programming languages, and is often used to illustrate a language's basic syntax.
"Hello, World!" programs are often the first a student learns to write in a given language,[1] and they can also be used as a sanity test to ensure computer software intended to compile or run source code is correctly installed, and that its operator understands how to use it.
While small test programs have existed since the development of programmable computers, the tradition of using the phrase "Hello, World!" as a test message was influenced by an example program in the seminal 1978 book The C Programming Language.
The example program in that book prints "hello, world", and was inherited from a 1974 Bell Laboratories internal memorandum by Brian Kernighan, Programming in C: A Tutorial.

main( ) {
        printf("hello, world");
}

In the above example, the main( ) function defines where the program should start executing.
The function body consists of a single statement, a call to the printf function, which stands for "print formatted".
This function will cause the program to output whatever is passed to it as the parameter, in this case the string hello, world.
The program also prints hello, world! on the terminal, including a newline character.
The phrase is divided into multiple variables because in B, a character constant is limited to four ASCII characters.
The previous example in the tutorial printed hi! on the terminal, and the phrase hello,  world! was introduced as a slightly longer greeting that required several character constants for its expression.
The Jargon File claims that "Hello, World!" originated instead with BCPL (1967).
This claim is supposedly supported by the archived notes of the inventors of BCPL, Brian Kernighan at Princeton and Martin Richards at Cambridge.
The phrase predated by over a decade its usage in computing; as early as the 1950s, it was the catchphrase of radio disc jockey William B. Williams.
